Salt Crusted Potatoes with Fresh Rosemary recipes
=================================================

Recipe Metadata
---------------
Recipe ID: e80c1b64b4d8e16c
CSV row number: 223
Recipe name: Salt Crusted Potatoes with Fresh Rosemary recipes
Source: melskitchencafe.com
URL: http://www.melskitchencafe.com/salt-crusted-potatoes-with-fresh-rosemary/
Image URL: https://datahive-prod-dataset-products.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/dataset/346/0168fb1189220fb8bffdab9c9dc04b01a733a33cf4588b3230fe3155249ed998/21078536.jpeg
Servings: 6
Calories: 1814.83
Diet labels: High-Fiber, Low-Fat
Health labels: Vegan, Vegetarian, Dairy-Free, Gluten-Free, Egg-Free, Peanut-Free, Tree-Nut-Free, Soy-Free, Fish-Free, Shellfish-Free
Allergy cautions: none listed
Cuisine type: british
Meal type: lunch/dinner
Dish type: starter

Original CSV Fields
-------------------
recipe_name: Salt Crusted Potatoes with Fresh Rosemary recipes
source: melskitchencafe.com
url: http://www.melskitchencafe.com/salt-crusted-potatoes-with-fresh-rosemary/
servings: 6
calories: 1814.831562
image_url: https://datahive-prod-dataset-products.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/dataset/346/0168fb1189220fb8bffdab9c9dc04b01a733a33cf4588b3230fe3155249ed998/21078536.jpeg
diet_labels: ["High-Fiber","Low-Fat"]
health_labels: ["Vegan","Vegetarian","Dairy-Free","Gluten-Free","Egg-Free","Peanut-Free","Tree-Nut-Free","Soy-Free","Fish-Free","Shellfish-Free"]
cautions: []
cuisine_type: ["british"]
meal_type: ["lunch/dinner"]
dish_type: ["starter"]

URL Fetch
---------
Fetch status: http_200
Fetch error: none

Recipe Text From URL
--------------------
Recipe: Salt Crusted Potatoes with Fresh Rosemary

Recipe category: ['Side Dish']

Recipe cuisine: ['American']

Yield: ['6', '6 Servings']

Prep time: PT10M

Cook time: PT40M

Total time: PT50M

Ingredients:
- 4-5 pounds baby red (white, yellow or purple potatoes (1 inch to 2 1/2 inches), can use a variety)
- 1 tablespoon coarse kosher salt
- 2 tablespoons olive oil
- 2 tablespoons minced fresh rosemary leaves

Instructions:
1. Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F.
2. Place the potatoes in a large bowl (if you have overly large ones, cut them in half so all the potatoes are about 1-inch to 2 1/2-inches). Toss to coat with olive oil, salt, and rosemary so all the flavors are evenly distributed.
3. Transfer to a large, rimmed baking sheet and bake for 20 minutes.
4. Turn the potatoes and continue to bake 18-22 minutes longer until they are fork tender.
5. Serve hot; some of my family avoid the salty skins and go straight for the creamy middle, but I love the combination of both.

Visible page text:
About About Contact Friday Thoughts Gift Guides Favorite Things
About
Contact
Friday Thoughts
Gift Guides
Favorite Things
Recipes Recipe Index Main Dishes Desserts Breads 30-Minute Meals Breakfast Make-Ahead Meals Recipes the World Forgot
Recipe Index
Main Dishes
Desserts
Breads
30-Minute Meals
Breakfast
Make-Ahead Meals
Recipes the World Forgot
The Best Recipes
Menu Plans
Mel’s Kitchen Cafe Cookbook: Available Now!
Salt Crusted Potatoes with Fresh Rosemary
These salt crusted potatoes with fresh rosemary bake until the outsides are crispy, then the insides are perfectly creamy and tender.
Aren’t these colorful baby potatoes adorable? Looks aside, they are incredibly tasty, too.
The teensy taters are crusted with salt, olive oil and rosemary and bake until the outsides are crispy and wrinkly and the insides are perfectly creamy and tender.
I know, potato side dishes aren’t exactly the most exciting thing to see pop up here, especially after the extreme cookie dough overload earlier this week, but I also know that sometimes you need a really, really great side dish to go with a fabulous main dish (like this braised brisket , any one of these pork tenderloin numbers , or this sweet and spicy pot roast ) and that’s why these potatoes are here for you today.
I loved-these-times-a-trillion especially with the fresh rosemary flavor.
A few of my kids eschewed the salty skins and went straight for the creamy middle. I, and a few others, loved the combination of both the salty crust and the soft insides.
Oh, and by the way, if you haven’t seen baby potatoes around, I’m guessing they will be easier to find than you think.
As we’ve discussed before, I live in the middle of pretty much nowhere (not an insult because I love where I live; just the facts) and I found little two pound bags of these unique and colorful potatoes sitting right underneath the russets.
This may not be true in all instances but usually, if I can find it at my grocery store, I’m pretty confident you can, too.
One Year Ago: Red Chicken Chili Two Years Ago: Spooky Eats: Mummy-Dogs and Mummy Cookies Three Years Ago: Romaine Salad with Chicken, Cheddar, Apples, Spiced Pecans and Cranberry Vinaigrette
Ingredients
4-5 pounds baby red , white, yellow or purple potatoes (1 inch to 2 1/2 inches), can use a variety
1 tablespoon coarse kosher salt
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 tablespoons minced fresh rosemary leaves
Instructions
Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F.
Place the potatoes in a large bowl (if you have overly large ones, cut them in half so all the potatoes are about 1-inch to 2 1/2-inches). Toss to coat with olive oil, salt, and rosemary so all the flavors are evenly distributed.
Transfer to a large, rimmed baking sheet and bake for 20 minutes.
Turn the potatoes and continue to bake 18-22 minutes longer until they are fork tender.
Serve hot; some of my family avoid the salty skins and go straight for the creamy middle, but I love the combination of both.
Recommended Products
Recipe Source: adapted slightly from a recipe sent to me by Emily B., a MKC reader (thanks, Emily!)
Other Recipes Like This:
Cheesy Funeral Potatoes {Au Gratin Potatoes}
Melting Roasted Potatoes
Cheesy Bacon and Garlic Butter Smashed Red Potatoes
Herb-Roasted Potatoes
Leave a Comment + Rate This Recipe Cancel reply
15 comments on “Salt Crusted Potatoes with Fresh Rosemary”
Monica — March 25, 2025 @ 9:40 pm Reply Your recipe was my inspiration to give leftover boiled new potatoes some flair: Although it is always better with fresh rosemary and garlic, in a pinch I used dried rosemary ( ground to a powder with a mortar and pestle) and combined with garlic salt. I rolled the potatoes lightly in oil, then the rosemary-salt blend. Quick, easy, and tasty!
Your recipe was my inspiration to give leftover boiled new potatoes some flair: Although it is always better with fresh rosemary and garlic, in a pinch I used dried rosemary ( ground to a powder with a mortar and pestle) and combined with garlic salt. I rolled the potatoes lightly in oil, then the rosemary-salt blend. Quick, easy, and tasty!
Sara J — March 8, 2021 @ 4:51 pm Reply “These are the best potatoes I’ve ever had.” “Why would I ever eat potatoes any other way?” Those are the comments I got from my family when we had this recipe. This is a keeper! Thanks, Mel!!
“These are the best potatoes I’ve ever had.” “Why would I ever eat potatoes any other way?” Those are the comments I got from my family when we had this recipe. This is a keeper! Thanks, Mel!!
Margo M Gardner — January 7, 2019 @ 6:18 pm Reply Oh my goodness these are SO delicious!! Tonight was one of those nights when making dinner was the last thing I wanted to do. Breakfast for dinner is my typical go to on nights when I don’t really want to cook – usually scrambled eggs, toast, and smoothies. Because these little potatoes are so easy I decided to add them to the meal too. So glad I did! Very little effort but it really made our breakfast for dinner feel like a more substantial meal. Thank you!!
Oh my goodness these are SO delicious!! Tonight was one of those nights when making dinner was the last thing I wanted to do. Breakfast for dinner is my typical go to on nights when I don’t really want to cook – usually scrambled eggs, toast, and smoothies. Because these little potatoes are so easy I decided to add them to the meal too. So glad I did! Very little effort but it really made our breakfast for dinner feel like a more substantial meal. Thank you!!
Emy — May 7, 2018 @ 3:22 pm Reply Wow! These are so simple to make, but produce impressive results! The colored baby potatoes make a really pretty dish and the flavor is crazy good! I will definitely use this side dish again – great with any of Mel’s pork tenderloin recipes, grilled pork chops, or grilled chicken. Thanks for another winner Mel!
Wow! These are so simple to make, but produce impressive results! The colored baby potatoes make a really pretty dish and the flavor is crazy good! I will definitely use this side dish again – great with any of Mel’s pork tenderloin recipes, grilled pork chops, or grilled chicken. Thanks for another winner Mel!
Ellisa — August 22, 2015 @ 9:46 pm Reply I lived in the Canary Islands for a while and these potatoes are similar to a typical dish there called Papas Arrugadas (“Wrinkled Potatoes”). In their case, you boil a pot of water with a whole bunch of salt and wait for the water to evaporate, leaving the potatoes crusted in the salt. Very yummy! I can’t wait to try these.
I lived in the Canary Islands for a while and these potatoes are similar to a typical dish there called Papas Arrugadas (“Wrinkled Potatoes”). In their case, you boil a pot of water with a whole bunch of salt and wait for the water to evaporate, leaving the potatoes crusted in the salt. Very yummy! I can’t wait to try these.
Nicole H — September 3, 2014 @ 5:08 pm Reply I’m not going to lie, I passed by this recipe when you first posted it, and now I wish that I hadn’t! I’m making these tonight for the second time in about 2 weeks and love how simple and delicious they are. They are so quick to put together and my family loves them! Thanks for another great recipe!
I’m not going to lie, I passed by this recipe when you first posted it, and now I wish that I hadn’t! I’m making these tonight for the second time in about 2 weeks and love how simple and delicious they are. They are so quick to put together and my family loves them! Thanks for another great recipe!
Becky — November 3, 2013 @ 8:58 am Reply I made these are they are wonderful! I actually found these potatoes at Aldi!
I made these are they are wonderful!
I actually found these potatoes at Aldi!
Tahnycooks — October 14, 2013 @ 12:24 pm Reply As soon as your top picture popped up, it instantly made me say, YUM! The perfect potato! These look so delicious!
As soon as your top picture popped up, it instantly made me say, YUM! The perfect potato! These look so delicious!
Des — October 13, 2013 @ 1:54 am Reply One of my all time favorite way to cook potatoes. Love love love!
One of my all time favorite way to cook potatoes. Love love love!
Deborah — October 12, 2013 @ 11:02 pm Reply I am always on the lookout for a great side dish recipe. These look perfect!!
I am always on the lookout for a great side dish recipe. These look perfect!!
amy — October 11, 2013 @ 11:25 am Reply Yum, my hubsband loves potatoes. I also want to add that i indeed overloaded on your cookie dough recipe myself. I dont make a lot of treats but cookie dough is my weakness and i couldnt resist. Addicting and i did feel a little sick from too much but nevertheless the cookie.dough was great. Great recipe here too.
Yum, my hubsband loves potatoes. I also want to add that i indeed overloaded on your cookie dough recipe myself. I dont make a lot of treats but cookie dough is my weakness and i couldnt resist. Addicting and i did feel a little sick from too much but nevertheless the cookie.dough was great. Great recipe here too.
Erin @ The Spiffy Cookie — October 11, 2013 @ 11:17 am Reply Rosemary and potatoes were meant for eachother.
Rosemary and potatoes were meant for eachother.
kelly @ livelovepasta — October 11, 2013 @ 8:39 am Reply I love the simplicity of this recipe…and they look totally delish!!
I love the simplicity of this recipe…and they look totally delish!!
Stephanie @ PlainChicken — October 11, 2013 @ 8:19 am Reply YUM! These potatoes sound delicious!
YUM! These potatoes sound delicious!
Melanie @ carmelmoments.com — October 11, 2013 @ 7:52 am Reply They are adorable! I don’t know if I’ve ever seen purple potatoes. I must live a very sheltered life. 🙂
They are adorable! I don’t know if I’ve ever seen purple potatoes. I must live a very sheltered life. 🙂
Get my best recipes + tips straight to your inbox
©2026 Mel's Kitchen Cafe . Design by Purr .
