Barbecued leg of pork with grilled summer vegetables
====================================================

Recipe Metadata
---------------
Recipe ID: 941ef649958e4ec4
CSV row number: 452
Recipe name: Barbecued leg of pork with grilled summer vegetables
Source: BBC Good Food
URL: https://www.bbcgoodfood.com/recipes/barbecued-leg-pork-grilled-summer-vegetables
Image URL: https://datahive-prod-dataset-products.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/dataset/346/02e6ac9c9db4c1b148045f37d9b13b29e8abbeed5578826760c9176a89060010/20976522.bin
Servings: 10
Calories: 5361.69
Diet labels: Low-Carb, Low-Sodium
Health labels: Paleo, Dairy-Free, Gluten-Free, Egg-Free, Peanut-Free, Tree-Nut-Free, Soy-Free, Fish-Free, Shellfish-Free
Allergy cautions: none listed
Cuisine type: mediterranean
Meal type: lunch/dinner
Dish type: main course

Original CSV Fields
-------------------
recipe_name: Barbecued leg of pork with grilled summer vegetables
source: BBC Good Food
url: https://www.bbcgoodfood.com/recipes/barbecued-leg-pork-grilled-summer-vegetables
servings: 10
calories: 5361.686000000265
image_url: https://datahive-prod-dataset-products.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/dataset/346/02e6ac9c9db4c1b148045f37d9b13b29e8abbeed5578826760c9176a89060010/20976522.bin
diet_labels: ["Low-Carb","Low-Sodium"]
health_labels: ["Paleo","Dairy-Free","Gluten-Free","Egg-Free","Peanut-Free","Tree-Nut-Free","Soy-Free","Fish-Free","Shellfish-Free"]
cautions: []
cuisine_type: ["mediterranean"]
meal_type: ["lunch/dinner"]
dish_type: ["main course"]

URL Fetch
---------
Fetch status: http_200
Fetch error: none

Recipe Text From URL
--------------------
Recipe: Barbecued leg of pork with grilled summer vegetables

Description: Butterflying a boneless leg of pork helps it to cook quicker. Serve with fennel, peppers, courgettes and spring onions charred to perfection

Recipe category: Main course

Recipe cuisine: British

Yield: 10

Prep time: PT30M

Cook time: PT2H

Total time: PT2H30M

Ingredients:
- handful bay leaves
- handful rosemary sprigs
- handful thyme sprigs
- 4 garlic cloves
- 3 tbsp olive oil
- 4 tbsp cider vinegar
- 2-3kg boneless, skinless pork leg, butterflied into 1 piece
- handful parsley leaves, chopped
- 2 fennel bulbs cut into wedges, fronds picked and kept separate
- bunch spring onions green parts finely sliced and kept separate, whites trimmed but left whole
- 1 red pepper deseeded and cut into large chunks
- 1 yellow pepper deseeded and cut into large chunks
- 3 courgettes cut on an angle into long slices
- 2 tbsp olive oil
- juice &frac12; lemon

Instructions:
1. Using a pestle and mortar, bash and bruise the bay, rosemary and thyme with the garlic, olive oil and 1 tbsp of the vinegar, plus some seasoning. Smear the mixture all over the meat to marinate. Can be done up to 24 hrs ahead.
2. Set aside the fennel fronds and sliced spring onions, and toss the rest of the vegetables in 1 tbsp of the olive oil and some seasoning. Build your barbecue so that there is a higher pile of coals on one side and a lower pile on the other. Light the barbecue and, when the coals are ashen, grill the vegetables (be careful that the spring onions do not fall through the bars) until lightly charred and wilted. Scoop them into a dish and dress with the rest of the olive oil and the lemon juice, then scatter with the fennel fronds and sliced spring onions, and set aside.
3. Now cook the pork. It needs to sizzle for 1 hr over a fairly low heat – the coals should be grey but, to ensure they don’t go out halfway through cooking, you may need to keep adding occasional coals. Lay the pork on the coolest side of the barbecue, fat-side down, and brown for about 20 mins until well charred (if you have a kettle barbecue, cover with the lid). Use tongs to flip the meat and continue to cook slowly for about 1 hr more, turning and moving the meat occasionally, until the thickest part is very firm when prodded, or when the juices show no sign of pink when pierced with a skewer. If you have a digital cooking thermometer, it should read 65C or more when inserted in the thickest part. (If the pork is organic, it’s fine if it’s a tiny bit pink, but you certainly don’t want it raw.)
4. When the pork is cooked, place on a dish, scatter with parsley, drizzle over the rest of the vinegar and leave to rest somewhere warm for 15 mins. Carve the pork into thin slices on a board and serve with the just warm vegetables and vinegary resting juices.

Visible page text:
Barbecued leg of pork with grilled summer vegetables
Barney Desmazery
Butterflying a boneless leg of pork helps it to cook quicker. Serve with fennel, peppers, courgettes and spring onions charred to perfection
Showing items 1 to 3 of 3
A quick and superhealthy side that is brilliant with your main meals or barbecues
Make a melting potato side dish without messing up your barbecue, by cooking it in a foil bag
Ingredients
Nutrition
handful bay leaves
handful rosemary sprigs
handful thyme sprigs
4 garlic cloves
3 tbsp olive oil
4 tbsp cider vinegar
2-3kg boneless, skinless pork leg, butterflied into 1 piece
handful parsley leaves, chopped
For the vegetables
2 fennel bulbs cut into wedges, fronds picked and kept separate
bunch spring onions green parts finely sliced and kept separate, whites trimmed but left whole
1 red pepper deseeded and cut into large chunks
1 yellow pepper deseeded and cut into large chunks
3 courgettes cut on an angle into long slices
2 tbsp olive oil
juice ½ lemon
Nutrition: per serving (10)
kcal 364
fat 19 g
saturates 6 g
carbs 4 g
sugars 1 g
fibre 3 g
protein 43 g
salt 0.3 g
Method
step 1 Using a pestle and mortar, bash and bruise the bay, rosemary and thyme with the garlic, olive oil and 1 tbsp of the vinegar, plus some seasoning. Smear the mixture all over the meat to marinate. Can be done up to 24 hrs ahead.
step 1
Using a pestle and mortar, bash and bruise the bay, rosemary and thyme with the garlic, olive oil and 1 tbsp of the vinegar, plus some seasoning. Smear the mixture all over the meat to marinate. Can be done up to 24 hrs ahead.
step 2 Set aside the fennel fronds and sliced spring onions, and toss the rest of the vegetables in 1 tbsp of the olive oil and some seasoning. Build your barbecue so that there is a higher pile of coals on one side and a lower pile on the other. Light the barbecue and, when the coals are ashen, grill the vegetables (be careful that the spring onions do not fall through the bars) until lightly charred and wilted. Scoop them into a dish and dress with the rest of the olive oil and the lemon juice, then scatter with the fennel fronds and sliced spring onions, and set aside.
step 2
Set aside the fennel fronds and sliced spring onions, and toss the rest of the vegetables in 1 tbsp of the olive oil and some seasoning. Build your barbecue so that there is a higher pile of coals on one side and a lower pile on the other. Light the barbecue and, when the coals are ashen, grill the vegetables (be careful that the spring onions do not fall through the bars) until lightly charred and wilted. Scoop them into a dish and dress with the rest of the olive oil and the lemon juice, then scatter with the fennel fronds and sliced spring onions, and set aside.
step 3 Now cook the pork. It needs to sizzle for 1 hr over a fairly low heat – the coals should be grey but, to ensure they don’t go out halfway through cooking, you may need to keep adding occasional coals. Lay the pork on the coolest side of the barbecue, fat-side down, and brown for about 20 mins until well charred (if you have a kettle barbecue, cover with the lid). Use tongs to flip the meat and continue to cook slowly for about 1 hr more, turning and moving the meat occasionally, until the thickest part is very firm when prodded, or when the juices show no sign of pink when pierced with a skewer. If you have a digital cooking thermometer, it should read 65C or more when inserted in the thickest part. (If the pork is organic, it’s fine if it’s a tiny bit pink, but you certainly don’t want it raw.)
step 3
Now cook the pork. It needs to sizzle for 1 hr over a fairly low heat – the coals should be grey but, to ensure they don’t go out halfway through cooking, you may need to keep adding occasional coals. Lay the pork on the coolest side of the barbecue, fat-side down, and brown for about 20 mins until well charred (if you have a kettle barbecue, cover with the lid). Use tongs to flip the meat and continue to cook slowly for about 1 hr more, turning and moving the meat occasionally, until the thickest part is very firm when prodded, or when the juices show no sign of pink when pierced with a skewer. If you have a digital cooking thermometer, it should read 65C or more when inserted in the thickest part. (If the pork is organic, it’s fine if it’s a tiny bit pink, but you certainly don’t want it raw.)
step 4 When the pork is cooked, place on a dish, scatter with parsley, drizzle over the rest of the vinegar and leave to rest somewhere warm for 15 mins. Carve the pork into thin slices on a board and serve with the just warm vegetables and vinegary resting juices.
step 4
When the pork is cooked, place on a dish, scatter with parsley, drizzle over the rest of the vinegar and leave to rest somewhere warm for 15 mins. Carve the pork into thin slices on a board and serve with the just warm vegetables and vinegary resting juices.
Recipe from Good Food magazine, July 2013
Comments, questions and tips
Overall rating
Savour the season
Explore our recipe app
Subscribe now and get access to exclusive recipes, meal plans, podcasts and more.
All Access subscription: Magazine & App
Good Food magazine and our award winning app in one simple subscription. Now from £3.17 per month
Podcast
Our food team shares tips, techniques and their all-time favourite recipes in our lively weekly podcast.
