Pumpkin Waffles
===============

Recipe Metadata
---------------
Recipe ID: 7609e6bde103df64
CSV row number: 22
Recipe name: Pumpkin Waffles
Source: strengthandsunshine.com
URL: https://strengthandsunshine.com/introducing-pumpkin-waffles
Image URL: https://datahive-prod-dataset-products.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/dataset/346/00177023dabcad4aeaaa534e7b53ce27f6be51e80c35ae8a4a897b75d6299cbc/21075735.jpg
Servings: 1
Calories: 191.55
Diet labels: High-Fiber, Low-Fat
Health labels: Vegan, Vegetarian, Dairy-Free, Gluten-Free, Egg-Free, Peanut-Free, Tree-Nut-Free, Soy-Free, Fish-Free, Shellfish-Free
Allergy cautions: Soy, Sulfites, FODMAP
Cuisine type: french
Meal type: breakfast
Dish type: desserts

Original CSV Fields
-------------------
recipe_name: Pumpkin Waffles
source: strengthandsunshine.com
url: https://strengthandsunshine.com/introducing-pumpkin-waffles
servings: 1
calories: 191.5537941
image_url: https://datahive-prod-dataset-products.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/dataset/346/00177023dabcad4aeaaa534e7b53ce27f6be51e80c35ae8a4a897b75d6299cbc/21075735.jpg
diet_labels: ["High-Fiber","Low-Fat"]
health_labels: ["Vegan","Vegetarian","Dairy-Free","Gluten-Free","Egg-Free","Peanut-Free","Tree-Nut-Free","Soy-Free","Fish-Free","Shellfish-Free"]
cautions: ["Soy","Sulfites","FODMAP"]
cuisine_type: ["french"]
meal_type: ["breakfast"]
dish_type: ["desserts"]

URL Fetch
---------
Fetch status: http_200
Fetch error: none

Recipe Text From URL
--------------------
Recipe: Pumpkin Waffles

Description: Simple, crispy, and delicious pumpkin waffles! A single-serve, gluten-free, vegan breakfast recipe that's easy and ready in a snap any day of the year! Plus, you can sneak your veggies in!

Recipe category: Breakfast

Recipe cuisine: American

Yield: 1

Ingredients:
- 1/3 Cup All-Purpose Gluten-Free Flour
- 1/2 Tsp Baking Powder
- 1/2 Tsp Cinnamon
- 1/2 Tsp Pumpkin Pie Spice
- 1/4 Tsp Pure Madagascar Bourbon Vanilla Extract
- 1/4 Cup Pure Pumpkin Puree
- 1/3 Cup Water
- Maple Syrup (to serve)

Instructions:
1. Heat your greased waffle iron while you prep the batter.
2. In a mixing bowl, combine all the waffle ingredients and mix with a fork to combine.
3. Pour the batter in the heated iron and spread it evenly over the grills.
4. Close the iron and let it do its magic!
5. Then remove and serve with your favorite topping, like syrup!

Visible page text:
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Simple, crispy, and delicious pumpkin waffles! A single-serve, gluten-free, vegan, and allergy-free breakfast recipe that's easy and ready in a snap any day of the year! Plus, you can sneak veggies in for kids and make multiple batches to freeze!
***This post has been updated in April 2016. Original writing stands***
Merry Christmas Eve! I am keeping this short because we all should be enjoying this lovely day 🙂 Can you believe that tomorrow really is Christmas! This year flew by, I feel like it was just December of 2012! But then again it also feels like it was really long if I think back to all that has happened since last Christmas.
Yesterday I was in the kitchen all day and now am so excited to eat what I made! It was torture having to wait until today to try it, haha! That also means 3 new recipes for you guys soon (not to mention the one below!). I also helped my mom with some wrapping. I really do suck at folding the corners but otherwise I am pretty good...I think 😉 And of course I went to Group Power last night. Getting strong and sweaty is always a good way to end the night. Well, anyway, today I need to get ready to head over to my grandparents. I am getting in my workout early today, my usually HIIT on the bike and then yoga! Can't miss a yoga day now can we 😉 I won't delay you any longer. I know you have been anticipating this recipe since I told you yesterday...right? 🙂 Well here we go!
Pumpkin Waffles
5 Stars 4 Stars 3 Stars 2 Stars 1 Star
No reviews
Simple, crispy, and delicious pumpkin waffles! A single-serve, gluten-free, vegan breakfast recipe that's easy and ready in a snap any day of the year! Plus, you can sneak your veggies in!
Author: Rebecca Pytell
Yield: 1 1 x
Category: Breakfast
Cuisine: American
Ingredients
⅓ Cup All-Purpose Gluten-Free Flour
½ Tsp Baking Powder
½ Tsp Cinnamon
½ Tsp Pumpkin Pie Spice
¼ Tsp Pure Madagascar Bourbon Vanilla Extract
¼ Cup Pure Pumpkin Puree
⅓ Cup Water
Maple Syrup (to serve)
Instructions
Heat your greased waffle iron while you prep the batter.
In a mixing bowl, combine all the waffle ingredients and mix with a fork to combine.
Pour the batter in the heated iron and spread it evenly over the grills.
Close the iron and let it do its magic!
Then remove and serve with your favorite topping, like syrup!
Nutrition
Serving Size: 1
If you're looking for a fabulous waffle iron that is easy and makes perfect waffles every time, I recommend, 100%, the Hamilton Beach Mess-Free Belgium Style Waffle Maker ! I literally don't even have to clean it after using! The waffles comes off clean and easy! (Plus, it's only $20!)
Perfect easy breakfast for Christmas Eve morning, Christmas morning, or like...everyday! I can't believe it was this easy and they came out so good! Plus it was a lot quicker than pancakes 🙂
So tell me:
+ Have you made waffles recently?
+ What will you be making for Christmas breakfast? I can't believe people think pumpkin is only for Thanksgiving and Fall. No, just no. Pumpkin is an all-year-round every day and every way ingredient! I just had my Pumpkin Spice Granola this morning and it is not Thanksgiving 😉
+ What are you doing today? Visiting family, staying home? Prepping for a big Christmas Day?
I think I may pop in tomorrow just to say hi, but if not MERRY CHRISTMAS !
———————————————-
Related
Reader Interactions
Comments
Although waffles aren't a big thing in where I live, they sound like a delish dish. Thank you so very much for this awesome recipe! Reply Alright. Reply
Although waffles aren't a big thing in where I live, they sound like a delish dish. Thank you so very much for this awesome recipe!
Alright. Reply
Alright.
A great idea to get more nutrients in our food! I love pumpkin. 🙂 Sharing! Reply Thank you! Reply
A great idea to get more nutrients in our food! I love pumpkin. 🙂 Sharing!
Thank you! Reply
Thank you!
Your pumpkin waffles look so good. What a healthy and delectable way to start the day! Reply Thank you! Reply
Your pumpkin waffles look so good. What a healthy and delectable way to start the day!
These look incredible! Pinning so I can give them a try 🙂 Reply Thank you! You will love them! Reply
These look incredible! Pinning so I can give them a try 🙂
Thank you! You will love them! Reply
Thank you! You will love them!
I love all things pumpkin! Waffles sound amazing! Wish I had some right now. Reply Totally! Reply
I love all things pumpkin! Waffles sound amazing! Wish I had some right now.
Totally! Reply
Totally!
Those look delicious! I have to try them 🙂 I love pumpkin in this kind of recepies 🙂 Reply Pumpkin wins in any recipe! Reply
Those look delicious! I have to try them 🙂 I love pumpkin in this kind of recepies 🙂
Pumpkin wins in any recipe! Reply
Pumpkin wins in any recipe!
Anything pumpkin gets my vote. Reply Same here! Reply
Anything pumpkin gets my vote.
Same here! Reply
Same here!
These waffles look delicious! I love the fact that this is just another way that you can get your kids to eat vegetables... without them knowing! lol! 🙂 Reply Haha, yes, but the best part is they will LOVE eating "veggies" 😉 Reply
These waffles look delicious! I love the fact that this is just another way that you can get your kids to eat vegetables... without them knowing! lol! 🙂
Haha, yes, but the best part is they will LOVE eating "veggies" 😉 Reply
Haha, yes, but the best part is they will LOVE eating "veggies" 😉
I'm definitely going to have to try these; they look amazing, and we're GF at our house. I'm pinning them so I don't forget about it. Reply You will not be let down! They are so yummy! Reply
I'm definitely going to have to try these; they look amazing, and we're GF at our house. I'm pinning them so I don't forget about it.
You will not be let down! They are so yummy! Reply
You will not be let down! They are so yummy!
These look so yummy, never tried pumpkin before ... Reply That's insane! Reply
These look so yummy, never tried pumpkin before ...
That's insane! Reply
That's insane!
The waffles look delicious and I loved reading about Christmas today. Sweet 🙂 Reply Hahahaha! Thank you! Reply
The waffles look delicious and I loved reading about Christmas today. Sweet 🙂
Hahahaha! Thank you! Reply
Hahahaha! Thank you!
My husband and my sister would love these Pumpkin Pancakes and I can't wait to make them for them. As my sisters Birthday is on the 4th of May and this would be the best present ever for her. Reply Yes they would! She would love some I'm sure! Reply
My husband and my sister would love these Pumpkin Pancakes and I can't wait to make them for them. As my sisters Birthday is on the 4th of May and this would be the best present ever for her.
Yes they would! She would love some I'm sure! Reply
Yes they would! She would love some I'm sure!
These sound so simple to make! Your waffle iron makes super cute shapes too. I don't think I was reading your blog back when you originally posted this - it's nice seeing something from the past 🙂 I'm pinning & sharing. Reply That's because it makes STICKS! Haha! The best waffles! Reply
These sound so simple to make! Your waffle iron makes super cute shapes too. I don't think I was reading your blog back when you originally posted this - it's nice seeing something from the past 🙂 I'm pinning & sharing.
That's because it makes STICKS! Haha! The best waffles! Reply
That's because it makes STICKS! Haha! The best waffles!
Once again you're making me hungry!! I think you should put together a pumpkin cookbook! Reply Hahaha, that could happen 😉 Reply
Once again you're making me hungry!! I think you should put together a pumpkin cookbook!
Hahaha, that could happen 😉 Reply
Hahaha, that could happen 😉
I'm up for anything Pumpkin Pie and Vegan! Yum! Reply Haha, I always am! Reply
I'm up for anything Pumpkin Pie and Vegan! Yum!
Haha, I always am! Reply
Haha, I always am!
My mouth is now watering! It's not even pumpkin season, but I could eat all the pumpkins all year long! I will have to try these. Thanks for sharing. Reply Pumpkin has no season in my life 😉 Hahaha! Reply
My mouth is now watering! It's not even pumpkin season, but I could eat all the pumpkins all year long! I will have to try these. Thanks for sharing.
Pumpkin has no season in my life 😉 Hahaha! Reply
Pumpkin has no season in my life 😉 Hahaha!
These look so delicious! Thanks for sharing the recipe. 🙂 Reply Enjoy! Reply
These look so delicious! Thanks for sharing the recipe. 🙂
Enjoy! Reply
Enjoy!
These look so yummy!!!!! I want to try this asap 😀 Blessings, Edye // Gracefulcoffee Reply I hope you do! Enjoy! Reply
These look so yummy!!!!! I want to try this asap 😀
Blessings, Edye // Gracefulcoffee
I hope you do! Enjoy! Reply
I hope you do! Enjoy!
I need pumpkin pie spice in Germany!! These look delicious 😀 Reply You can make your own, my friend ! Reply
I need pumpkin pie spice in Germany!! These look delicious 😀
You can make your own, my friend ! Reply
You can make your own, my friend !
It looks great, I love anything pumpkin! I'm not allergic, so I don't care if it's gluten free or not. I'm pinning it. Thanks for sharing. this yummy recipe. FABBY Reply Enjoy! Reply
It looks great, I love anything pumpkin! I'm not allergic, so I don't care if it's gluten free or not. I'm pinning it. Thanks for sharing. this yummy recipe. FABBY
Yum! I literally just picked up a waffle iron the other week, so happy to have a new recipe to try out in there! I also happen to have some pumpkin in the cupboard - yay 🙂 Reply Awesome!!!! You are going to become waffle obsessed! Reply
Yum! I literally just picked up a waffle iron the other week, so happy to have a new recipe to try out in there! I also happen to have some pumpkin in the cupboard - yay 🙂
Awesome!!!! You are going to become waffle obsessed! Reply
Awesome!!!! You are going to become waffle obsessed!
Well I just had a mini panic attack. Christmas? What?! It pays to read the bold print. 😉 I love pumpkin waffles, they really are the most delicious things. Your waffle iron leaves the coolest pattern. Reply Bahahaha! You've been in a coma the last 7 months 😉 Best waffle iron there is! Reply
Well I just had a mini panic attack. Christmas? What?! It pays to read the bold print. 😉 I love pumpkin waffles, they really are the most delicious things. Your waffle iron leaves the coolest pattern.
Bahahaha! You've been in a coma the last 7 months 😉 Best waffle iron there is! Reply
Bahahaha! You've been in a coma the last 7 months 😉 Best waffle iron there is!
I so wanna eat it right out of the screen - this looks absolutely yum!! Reply Hahaha, perfect 😉 Thanks Molly! Reply
I so wanna eat it right out of the screen - this looks absolutely yum!!
Hahaha, perfect 😉 Thanks Molly! Reply
Hahaha, perfect 😉 Thanks Molly!
I have a waffle maker just sitting there. You have inspired me to get it out and try these. Reply Perfect! It should always be in easy reach 😉 Reply
I have a waffle maker just sitting there. You have inspired me to get it out and try these.
Perfect! It should always be in easy reach 😉 Reply
Perfect! It should always be in easy reach 😉
Hi Rebecca, This sounds like a breakfast worth getting up for -- tasty & Pinned & tweeted! Reply Yes! Thank you! Reply
Hi Rebecca, This sounds like a breakfast worth getting up for -- tasty & Pinned & tweeted!
Yes! Thank you! Reply
Yes! Thank you!
This is so yum! Now I need to buy a waffle iron ???? Reply Yes you do! Kitchen essential for us chefs! Reply
This is so yum! Now I need to buy a waffle iron ????
Yes you do! Kitchen essential for us chefs! Reply
Yes you do! Kitchen essential for us chefs!
Sooo, I PROMISE I'm buying that waffle iron this weekend. I've got some other things to get from Amazon too. I seriously thought I had hit the buy button after I added it to my cart last time, but whatever...mommy brain. Love the crispy edges on this delicious looking pumpkin waffles!! Yum! Reply You made me cry when you said you still hadn't bought it!!! You are missing out on waffle heaven!!!! Reply
Sooo, I PROMISE I'm buying that waffle iron this weekend. I've got some other things to get from Amazon too. I seriously thought I had hit the buy button after I added it to my cart last time, but whatever...mommy brain. Love the crispy edges on this delicious looking pumpkin waffles!! Yum!
You made me cry when you said you still hadn't bought it!!! You are missing out on waffle heaven!!!! Reply
You made me cry when you said you still hadn't bought it!!! You are missing out on waffle heaven!!!!
Pumpkin and waffles - two of my favorite things! Thanks 🙂 Reply Heck yea! Reply
Pumpkin and waffles - two of my favorite things! Thanks 🙂
Heck yea! Reply
Heck yea!
These look delicious! We make pancakes with sweet potato, but pumpkin would be a nice change of pace! It's hard finding tasty food for my daughters who are allergic to gluten, dairy, soya, egg, oats and peas beans and lentils, thank you so much for sharing this recipe. Reply O well everyone will love these! Reply
These look delicious! We make pancakes with sweet potato, but pumpkin would be a nice change of pace! It's hard finding tasty food for my daughters who are allergic to gluten, dairy, soya, egg, oats and peas beans and lentils, thank you so much for sharing this recipe.
O well everyone will love these! Reply
O well everyone will love these!
These look divine! Pumpkin puree works so well in gluten-free recipes and this one looks like a winner. Reply Keeps them nice and moist! Reply
These look divine! Pumpkin puree works so well in gluten-free recipes and this one looks like a winner.
Keeps them nice and moist! Reply
Keeps them nice and moist!
Hello breakfast! I love the pumpkin flavor. And waffles are just the best. My kids eat them a lot and LOVE them! Reply Yea!! Waffles are so fun to eat at any age! Reply
Hello breakfast! I love the pumpkin flavor. And waffles are just the best. My kids eat them a lot and LOVE them!
Yea!! Waffles are so fun to eat at any age! Reply
Yea!! Waffles are so fun to eat at any age!
No waffle iron here, but I imagine these would work just fine as pancakes too, and I have two cups pumpkin puree sitting in my freezer needing to be used. A few batches of this, plus our favorite pumpkin scones ought to do the trick, yes? Reply Then you should make my pumpkin pancakes here . Reply
No waffle iron here, but I imagine these would work just fine as pancakes too, and I have two cups pumpkin puree sitting in my freezer needing to be used. A few batches of this, plus our favorite pumpkin scones ought to do the trick, yes?
Then you should make my pumpkin pancakes here . Reply
Then you should make my pumpkin pancakes here .
Sounds like a really easy batter, and they turn out so, so pretty! Love it! Reply Thanks Patricia! Reply
Sounds like a really easy batter, and they turn out so, so pretty! Love it!
Thanks Patricia! Reply
Thanks Patricia!
these look amazing! I love pumpkin anything so thanks for this! Reply Woohoo! Pumpkin always rocks! Reply
these look amazing! I love pumpkin anything so thanks for this!
Woohoo! Pumpkin always rocks! Reply
Woohoo! Pumpkin always rocks!
i think pumpkin year round is a great idea, and i LOVE these waffles Reply Totally! Thanks Heather! Reply
i think pumpkin year round is a great idea, and i LOVE these waffles
Totally! Thanks Heather! Reply
Totally! Thanks Heather!
Yum! Waffles are one of my favorite breakfast foods! I think I need to make these, especially this fall! Thanks for sharing! Reply They are so crisp and great! Reply
Yum! Waffles are one of my favorite breakfast foods! I think I need to make these, especially this fall! Thanks for sharing!
They are so crisp and great! Reply
They are so crisp and great!
That waffle looks perfect, Rebecca! I'm craving it now even though it's April 😉 Looks delicious! Reply Thank you Vanessa 🙂 I am too! Reply
That waffle looks perfect, Rebecca! I'm craving it now even though it's April 😉 Looks delicious!
Thank you Vanessa 🙂 I am too! Reply
Thank you Vanessa 🙂 I am too!
These sound so good! We will share this on Pinterest. Reply Ha, thanks! Reply
These sound so good! We will share this on Pinterest.
Ha, thanks! Reply
Ha, thanks!
These look amazing! Adding them to the breakfast rotation! Reply Awesome! Haha me too now that I know just how easy waffles are to make 🙂 I really missed not eating them for years. Reply
These look amazing! Adding them to the breakfast rotation!
Awesome! Haha me too now that I know just how easy waffles are to make 🙂 I really missed not eating them for years. Reply
Awesome! Haha me too now that I know just how easy waffles are to make 🙂 I really missed not eating them for years.
Anyone who eats pumpkin year round is my bff 🙂 My husband actually said to me yesterday "Oh I'm so glad that pumpkin foods are done for a whole year" and I almost killed him (jk!). Every Christmas morning since I was a little girl, my mom makes a tube of Pillsbury cinnamon rolls. It's the tradition to unwrap our stockings while they're cooking, and then take a break to eat them before opening presents! Tomorrow is the first Christmas that I'll be home in a long time and I'm really excited for those cinnamon buns! Reply
Anyone who eats pumpkin year round is my bff 🙂 My husband actually said to me yesterday "Oh I'm so glad that pumpkin foods are done for a whole year" and I almost killed him (jk!). Every Christmas morning since I was a little girl, my mom makes a tube of Pillsbury cinnamon rolls. It's the tradition to unwrap our stockings while they're cooking, and then take a break to eat them before opening presents! Tomorrow is the first Christmas that I'll be home in a long time and I'm really excited for those cinnamon buns!
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
