Fresh Tomatillo Salsa recipes
=============================

Recipe Metadata
---------------
Recipe ID: 8f2fdf326768e87b
CSV row number: 53
Recipe name: Fresh Tomatillo Salsa recipes
Source: acedarspoon.com
URL: http://www.acedarspoon.com/fresh-tomatillo-salsa/
Image URL: https://datahive-prod-dataset-products.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/dataset/346/0043f7a143fe47bdc7e65e12b94b30d6d95b3b6d881e3ecc7a15c8321eb2d4b8/21110139.jpeg
Servings: 4
Calories: 190.87
Diet labels: none listed
Health labels: Vegan, Vegetarian, Paleo, Dairy-Free, Gluten-Free, Egg-Free, Peanut-Free, Tree-Nut-Free, Soy-Free, Fish-Free, Shellfish-Free
Allergy cautions: Sulfites
Cuisine type: south american
Meal type: lunch/dinner
Dish type: condiments and sauces

Original CSV Fields
-------------------
recipe_name: Fresh Tomatillo Salsa recipes
source: acedarspoon.com
url: http://www.acedarspoon.com/fresh-tomatillo-salsa/
servings: 4
calories: 190.8695583999349
image_url: https://datahive-prod-dataset-products.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/dataset/346/0043f7a143fe47bdc7e65e12b94b30d6d95b3b6d881e3ecc7a15c8321eb2d4b8/21110139.jpeg
diet_labels: []
health_labels: ["Vegan","Vegetarian","Paleo","Dairy-Free","Gluten-Free","Egg-Free","Peanut-Free","Tree-Nut-Free","Soy-Free","Fish-Free","Shellfish-Free"]
cautions: ["Sulfites"]
cuisine_type: ["south american"]
meal_type: ["lunch/dinner"]
dish_type: ["condiments and sauces"]

URL Fetch
---------
Fetch status: http_200
Fetch error: none

Recipe Text From URL
--------------------
Recipe: Tomatillo Salsa Verde

Description: Tomatillo Salsa Verde uses six simple ingredients to create a sweet salsa verde. Fresh tomatillos are blended with jalapeños, garlic, cilantro, onion and lime juice.

Recipe category: ['Appetizer, Dip']

Recipe cuisine: ['Mexican']

Yield: ['4', '4 servings']

Prep time: PT10M

Total time: PT10M

Ingredients:
- 8 medium tomatillos (husked, rinsed and quartered {about 1 pound})
- 2 jalapeños (rinsed, sliced and seeded {optional for heat})
- 1 clove garlic
- 1 cup cilantro
- 1/2 cup sweet onion (chopped)
- 1 Tablespoons lime juice {more to taste} (fresh )
- Salt to taste

Instructions:
1. Put the tomatillos in a food processor and blend for 10 seconds to begin to break them up.
2. Add remaining ingredients and blend until liquified.
3. Taste the salsa and if it is too spicy add more lime juice to taste as well as additional salt to taste.
4. Serve with fresh tortilla chips or on Mexican Dishes or put in a sealed container and keep in the refrigerator for up to 4 days.

Visible page text:
Get my newest recipes to your inbox!
Home › Recipes › Appetizers
Tomatillo Salsa Verde
By Julia Jolliff
Updated Feb 21, 2026, Published Jun 21, 2024
This post may contain affiliate links.
Tomatillo Salsa Verde uses six simple ingredients to create a sweet salsa verde. Fresh tomatillos are blended with jalapeños, garlic, cilantro, onion and lime juice. This makes a great topping for your favorite Mexican dishes or as a snack with chips.
Last year I started growing tomatillos in my garden. They ended up being a lot easier to grow than I originally thought they would be. By the end of the summer had a weekly supply of them and knew I had to start using them to make this Tomatillo Salsa Verde or this Avocado Tomatillo Salsa. I love the sweetness of tomatillos that they add to this easy salsa. Green salsas have become some of my favorite salsas. Don’t get me wrong, I love a good red salsa, but there is something about a sweet tomatillo salsa verde recipe that is so good. There is something so good about green salsa. I use it in these Slow Cooker Salsa Verde Chicken Tacos, Pinto Bean Soup , Green Chili Chicken Soup and this Instant Pot Pork Chili Verde.
I love putting green salsa on these beef nachos , Easy Cod Fish Tacos , Grilled Flank Steak , Greek Marinated Chicken and grilled veggies. It is the perfect sauce for a lot of your favorite Mexican dishes like a green enchilada sauce for enchiladas. A few I love putting it on breakfast tacos this Mexican Style Zucchini , Chicken Tinga , Chilaquiles Rojos , Easy Vegetarian Enchiladas , these Easy Zucchini Tacos, a burrito bowl or pork tacos .
Table of Contents
Recipe Ingredients
How to Make Salsa Verde
More Salsa Recipes
Tomatillo Salsa Verde Recipe
See full list of simple ingredients below in recipe card with exact measurements.
Tomatillos: Raw tomatillos are the star of this salsa. They look like small green tomatoes. I love finding fresh tomatillos at the farmers market or growing them in my summer garden. For a smoky flavor try using roasted tomatillos. See below for instructions on how to roast tomatillos.
Jalapenos : Jalapeños make this a spicier salsa. You could also use serrano chiles or green chili peppers or leave the jalapeño pepper out all together.
Cilantro : I love cilantro and fresh cilantro is a must in this recipe. Add what you like to get to the flavor you prefer!
Sweet Onion: The onion adds flavor to the salsa. You could use red onion or shallot instead or leave it out.
Lime Juice: This is adds sweetness and acidity to the salsa verde. You can add more or less to your liking.
This is such an easy recipe that you can whip up in under 10 minutes.
Step 1: Blend: Place tomatillos in a food processor and blend for 10 seconds to begin to break them up. Add remaining ingredients and blend until liquified.
Step 2: Adjust Seasoning: Taste the salsa and if it is too spicy add more lime juice to taste as well as additional salt to taste.
Serve with fresh tortilla chips or on Mexican Dishes or put in an airtight container or mason jars and keep in the refrigerator for up to 4 days.
Appetizers
Cucumber Salsa
Avocado Tomatillo Salsa
Easy Watermelon Salsa
Homemade Pico de Gallo
Tried this recipe? Leave a star rating and comment below! Subscribe to my newsletter or follow me on Facebook , Instagram , or Pinterest for the latest.
Ingredients 1x 2x 3x
▢ 8 medium tomatillos , husked, rinsed and quartered {about 1 pound}
▢ 2 jalapeños , rinsed, sliced and seeded {optional for heat}
▢ 1 clove garlic
▢ 1 cup cilantro
▢ 1/2 cup sweet onion , chopped
▢ 1 Tablespoons lime juice {more to taste} , fresh
▢ Salt to taste
Instructions
Put the tomatillos in a food processor and blend for 10 seconds to begin to break them up.
Add remaining ingredients and blend until liquified.
Taste the salsa and if it is too spicy add more lime juice to taste as well as additional salt to taste.
Serve with fresh tortilla chips or on Mexican Dishes or put in a sealed container and keep in the refrigerator for up to 4 days.
Notes
Nutrition
Nutrition information is automatically calculated, so should only be used as an approximation.
Facebook
X
Pinterest 272
Save
Email
Flipboard
Leave a comment Cancel reply
10 Comments
This is so easy to make in the summer months. Reply
This is so easy to make in the summer months.
I’ve never tried making homemade salsa verde! Excited to try 🙂 Reply It is so easy! I love that I control everything in it and can control the salt! Reply
I’ve never tried making homemade salsa verde! Excited to try 🙂
It is so easy! I love that I control everything in it and can control the salt! Reply
It is so easy! I love that I control everything in it and can control the salt!
I am going to use tomatillos from my Bountiful Basket to make this tonight…however, I don’t care for the taste of cilantro and typically leave it out of all recipes. 1 cup is a lot, though. Will this salsa taste good without the cilantro? Reply I think it would..you could do less cilantro and I think it would taste just as good. I would probably do it and then taste it and adjust as necessary. Try 8 tomatillos, 1 small/medium onion, 1 lime, salt and 2 jalapeños (depending on how much spice you want)…I think that would be good. Reply
I am going to use tomatillos from my Bountiful Basket to make this tonight…however, I don’t care for the taste of cilantro and typically leave it out of all recipes. 1 cup is a lot, though. Will this salsa taste good without the cilantro?
I think it would..you could do less cilantro and I think it would taste just as good. I would probably do it and then taste it and adjust as necessary. Try 8 tomatillos, 1 small/medium onion, 1 lime, salt and 2 jalapeños (depending on how much spice you want)…I think that would be good. Reply
I think it would..you could do less cilantro and I think it would taste just as good. I would probably do it and then taste it and adjust as necessary. Try 8 tomatillos, 1 small/medium onion, 1 lime, salt and 2 jalapeños (depending on how much spice you want)…I think that would be good.
So glad you liked this salsa! I actually haven’t used roasted tomatillos but it is on my list to try! Reply
So glad you liked this salsa! I actually haven’t used roasted tomatillos but it is on my list to try!
I love that this is not cooked. I nornally roast mine but the color always ends up so dreary. This is so bright and pretty! Reply Now that I have made the no-cook version I want to try roasting them to see how the flavor changes! I do love the color of this one though–would look great on a plate of tasty Mexican food. Reply
I love that this is not cooked. I nornally roast mine but the color always ends up so dreary. This is so bright and pretty!
Now that I have made the no-cook version I want to try roasting them to see how the flavor changes! I do love the color of this one though–would look great on a plate of tasty Mexican food. Reply
Now that I have made the no-cook version I want to try roasting them to see how the flavor changes! I do love the color of this one though–would look great on a plate of tasty Mexican food.
Thanks for the mention! So happy you liked it. It’s amazing how easy and delicious it is! Reply Your welcome–thanks for the great recipe! I loved it. Reply
Thanks for the mention! So happy you liked it. It’s amazing how easy and delicious it is!
Your welcome–thanks for the great recipe! I loved it. Reply
Your welcome–thanks for the great recipe! I loved it.
About Julia Jolliff
I'm Julia. Wife, mom to three growing boys, lover of food. Here you will find quick & easy weeknight meal ideas, kid-friendly recipes and a few sweet treats. My roots are from the Mediterranean and many of my recipes incorporate those flavors!
Mediterranean
Lemon Whipped Feta Dip
Roasted Red Pepper Feta Dip
Smoked Salmon Cucumber Appetizer
Layered Greek Dip
As Seen In
