Toasted Lobster Rolls Recipe
============================

Recipe Metadata
---------------
Recipe ID: 574f0a2361067145
CSV row number: 96
Recipe name: Toasted Lobster Rolls Recipe
Source: Group Recipes
URL: http://www.grouprecipes.com/76327/toasted-lobster-rolls.html
Image URL: https://datahive-prod-dataset-products.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/dataset/346/008a72b83d2f5712a6a59417df09e49f5e90d8275ccd3e157998cf19a9f97a01/21070629.jpg
Servings: 4
Calories: 1792.29
Diet labels: Low-Carb
Health labels: Peanut-Free, Tree-Nut-Free, Soy-Free, Fish-Free
Allergy cautions: Milk, Sulfites
Cuisine type: south east asian
Meal type: lunch/dinner
Dish type: sandwiches

Original CSV Fields
-------------------
recipe_name: Toasted Lobster Rolls Recipe
source: Group Recipes
url: http://www.grouprecipes.com/76327/toasted-lobster-rolls.html
servings: 4
calories: 1792.293404440294
image_url: https://datahive-prod-dataset-products.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/dataset/346/008a72b83d2f5712a6a59417df09e49f5e90d8275ccd3e157998cf19a9f97a01/21070629.jpg
diet_labels: ["Low-Carb"]
health_labels: ["Peanut-Free","Tree-Nut-Free","Soy-Free","Fish-Free"]
cautions: ["Milk","Sulfites"]
cuisine_type: ["south east asian"]
meal_type: ["lunch/dinner"]
dish_type: ["sandwiches"]

URL Fetch
---------
Fetch status: http_200
Fetch error: none

Recipe Text From URL
--------------------
Categories Search Your Bookmarks Upload a Recipe
Categories
Search
Your Bookmarks
Upload a Recipe
No idea what to search for? Start browsing till you find something.
grilled tilapia recipe
soil mix recipe
broiled steak recipe
broiled pork chops
recipe for cream of tomato soup
wwwcabbage rollupscom
microwave pork soy sauce wine flour onions
frosting made with pudding
Toasted Lobster Rolls Recipe
Toasted Lobster Rolls
Add yours
3 minutes to make
Serves 4
After seeing so many different recipes for the famous New England sandwich, the Lobster Roll, I had to try it. I looked through several recipes, but was lacking an item or 2, so I had to improvise…many thanks to Greekgirrrl, Lam, and Binky67 for leading me in the right direction, and sharing your recipes that each contributed something to this end product – I didn’t regret for one moment the cost of the lobster meat! Read more This is not an economical meal by any means, but it sure is worth the splurge when you can afford it… See less
creamy
crunchy
lobster
filling
on
a
toasted
bun
celery
onion
cucs
quick
save Add tags (comma separated) to categorize your bookmark. Save Feel free to use any of the below tags. Click one to add it. creamy crunchy lobster filling on a toasted bun celery onion cucs quick
planner Add this recipe to your weekly planner Fri Sat Sun Mon Tue Wed Thu Schedule your weekly meals and get auto-generated shopping lists. or go to planner
Fri
Sat
Sun
Mon
Tue
Wed
Thu
Schedule your weekly meals and get auto-generated shopping lists.
print
email Email to Send
groc. list Add items to your shopping list ¾ cup real mayonnaise (don’t substitute on this!) 1 squirt of fresh squeezed lemon juice a couple turns of fresh ground black pepper a couple turns of fresh ground sea salt a couple pinches of Old Bay seasoning ½ cup finely diced cucumber (peeled and seeds removed, then diced finely) ¼ cup diced sweet onion ¼ cup diced shallot ½ cup diced celery (large enough to give a good crunch factor) 1 pound lobster meat 4 large crispy romaine leaves hot dog buns softened butter go view your shopping list
¾ cup real mayonnaise (don’t substitute on this!)
1 squirt of fresh squeezed lemon juice
a couple turns of fresh ground black pepper
a couple turns of fresh ground sea salt
a couple pinches of Old Bay seasoning
½ cup finely diced cucumber (peeled and seeds removed, then diced finely)
¼ cup diced sweet onion
¼ cup diced shallot
½ cup diced celery (large enough to give a good crunch factor)
1 pound lobster meat
4 large crispy romaine leaves
hot dog buns
softened butter
Ingredients
¾ cup real mayonnaise (don’t substitute on this!) shopping list
1 squirt of fresh squeezed lemon juice shopping list
a couple turns of fresh ground black pepper shopping list
a couple turns of fresh ground sea salt shopping list
a couple pinches of Old Bay Seasoning shopping list
½ cup finely diced cucumber (peeled and seeds removed, then diced finely) shopping list
¼ cup diced sweet onion shopping list
¼ cup diced shallot shopping list
½ cup diced celery (large enough to give a good crunch factor) shopping list
1 pound lobster meat shopping list
4 large crispy romaine leaves shopping list
hot dog buns shopping list
softened butter shopping list
How to make it
In a medium bowl, combine the mayonnaise, lemon juice, and seasonings (taste it to see if you want any additional seasoning, but I found this sandwich filling needed very little).
Stir in the diced veggies, then gently add in the lobster meat.
Butter both sides of the hot dog buns and either toast in a skillet or under the broiler (I found this easiest to do in a griddle pan on the stovetop - I could use a spatula to press down on the bread as the bottom toasted, then flip it and toast the other side).
When toasted, insert a crispy romaine leaf inside each bun, and then fill it with the lobster salad mixture.
Serve immediately, and lick your fingers all you want – you won’t want to waste a drop of this!
NOTE: I think the lobster mixture would also be great on a bed of crispy lettuce for a main dish salad, or served on little rye bread squares for an appetizer. I had trouble not eating it straight out of the bowl!
notyourmomma South St. Petersburg, FL
littlemissey WI
cookingforfun Marblehead, MA
mystic_river1 Bradenton, Florida
jett2whit Union City, GA
cherylannxo Santa Nella, CA
a1patti Salem, MA
binky67 Ellicott City, MD
lasaf St. Paul, MN
shariv Rochester, NY
Show up here? Review or Bookmark it! ✔
All Comments
Your Comments
binky67 17 years ago :-) Anytime Was this review helpful? Yes Flag
" It was excellent " littlemissey ate it and said... My hubby is from Maine and he would always talk about lobster rolls. I have saved this one to make, sounds wonderful. Thanks for posting this great recipe. Got my "5" Was this review helpful? Yes Flag
michellem 17 years ago Yum this looks great! Im not sure I will find the best lobster around here. Maybe I can save this recipe and make it when we go to the coast in the summer! Was this review helpful? Yes Flag
" It was excellent " cookingforfun ate it and said... Perfect recipe. Thnaks and a 5 to you Arthur Was this review helpful? Yes Flag
" It was excellent " mystic_river1 ate it and said... I can smell the salty Atlantic Ocean as my Pappa and I walk along the rocky Maine coast. Memories of Kennebunkport, and a lobster roll to boot. A definite ^5. And a sincere thank you. Was this review helpful? Yes Flag
" It was excellent " flavors ate it and said... Thank you so much for this. I miss the lobster rolls we used to get on the Cape. We haven't been able to get back there for about 10 years. I will be making these this week. I also miss the fried clam rolls with the bellies on :( You are the best. MJ Was this review helpful? Yes Flag
" It was excellent " jett2whit ate it and said... Wowza! Love the sound of this one...high 5! Was this review helpful? Yes Flag
" It was excellent " cherylannxo ate it and said... Good morning Krumkake! It is so good to see you back, I missed you so much. I hope you're doing OK. Please write me back. This recipe is Over the top. You deserve my 5. Thank you so very much for sharing. Your friend...Cheryl Was this review helpful? Yes Flag
mrtnzangel8 17 years ago Oh you just made me so hungry. I have never had a lobster roll, but I am sure I would love them. Great post, Krum! Was this review helpful? Yes Flag
The Cook
The Rating
Good morning Krumkake! It is so good to see you back, I missed you so much. I hope you're doing OK. Please write me back. This recipe is Over the top. You deserve my 5. Thank you so very much for sharing. Your friend...Cheryl cherylannxo in Santa Nella loved it
Good morning Krumkake! It is so good to see you back, I missed you so much. I hope you're doing OK. Please write me back. This recipe is Over the top. You deserve my 5. Thank you so very much for sharing. Your friend...Cheryl
Wowza! Love the sound of this one...high 5! jett2whit in Union City loved it
Wowza! Love the sound of this one...high 5!
Thank you so much for this. I miss the lobster rolls we used to get on the Cape. We haven't been able to get back there for about 10 years. I will be making these this week. I also miss the fried clam rolls with the bellies on :( You are the best. MJ flavors in Algonquin loved it
Thank you so much for this. I miss the lobster rolls we used to get on the Cape. We haven't been able to get back there for about 10 years. I will be making these this week. I also miss the fried clam rolls with the bellies on :( You are the best. MJ
The Groups
Not added to any groups yet!
My Stuff My Home My Bookmarks Shopping List Weekly Planner
My Home
My Bookmarks
Shopping List
Weekly Planner
Jump To Browse Categories Search
Browse Categories
Help Help Forum FAQ
Help Forum
FAQ
Search Inspiration Terms of Service & Privacy Contact
Search Inspiration
Terms of Service & Privacy
Contact
Take Note We will not respond to member emails. Use the Help Forum for that.
If you have a business development or DMCA inquiry, Click Here .
Advertising on Group Recipes is sold by SheKnows.com. You can contact the sales team for more info.
while I look at others.
